---
layout: doc
title: Tasking Manager API
permalink: /en/coordination/tm-api/
lang: en
category: coordination
---

# Tasking Manager API

The Tasking Manager (TM) API is meant for software developers to interact with the Tasking Manager database.

However, it is also useful for regular (non developer) users. It enables them to retrieve information from the Tasking Manager database that is not (directly) available through the TM itself. 

## Accessing the API on the web

The interface to the API can be found [within the TM](https://tasks.hotosm.org/api-docs/)

To retrieve information from the API often an API key is needed. You find that on your settings page.

Look for queries (also called "endpoints") that start with "GET". These will pull (get) information from the TM database. The result (called response) is in JSON format, a structured way of storing information as plain text, understandable for computers and for humans. It is a bit like a shopping list or a recipe.

The workflow is as follows:
* Copy your API key from [your settings page](https://tasks.hotosm.org/settings)
* Click on the link with text “API Documentation”
* On [the API docs page](https://tasks.hotosm.org/api-docs/) scroll to the query/endpoint of your choice 
* Click on the button with the text “Try it out”
* If needed, paste your API key in the textbox near “Authorization”. Attention: you first need to delete the text “Token session TokenHere==” 
* Fill in the necessary fields
* Click the button with text “Execute”
* Check the results in the box with the title “Response body”
* Click on the button with text “Download”. You can save the Response as a JSON file or open it in an editor of your choice

An overview of all "GET" endpoints: <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AZe7Ax_Y6Cd4WTHH2RFCVLfmkstXQLNAPdfi0H7rwwA/edit#gid=0>

Some additional information:
* It is not always necessary to fill in all text fields
* User_id: can be found eg in OSMCha and the “osmChange XML” file
* The page field can be left empty
* The page_size field reflects the number of individual results you get
* Format date in the YYYY-MM-DD format


## Accessing the API through a script

The process of obtaining the desired information can be automated which facilitates processing of the result. Most scripting languages will provide support for issuing http-queries and processing JSON output. The url to be used for the query appears at the top of the output obtained on the API docs page discussed in the last section.

 In order to give you an idea how this can be converted to a script this is an example in the Python language which lists the projects most recently updated.

	#!/usr/bin/python3
	
	import json
	import sys
	import urllib.parse
	import urllib.request
	    
	
	def main():
	
	    req = urllib.request.Request ("https://tasking-manager-tm4-production-api.hotosm.org/" +
	                                  "api/v2/projects/?" +
	                                  "orderBy=last_updated&orderByType=DESC" +
	                                  "&mappingTypesExact=false&page=1" +
	                                  "&createdByMe=false&mappedByMe=false" +
	                                  "&favoritedByMe=false"+
	                                  "&managedByMe=false" +
	                                  "&basedOnMyInterests=false" +
	                                  "&omitMapResults=true",
	                                  headers={"accept": "application/json", "Accept-Language": "en"}
	                                 )
	    with urllib.request.urlopen (req) as response:
	        res = json.loads (response.read ())
	                                      
	    if "Error" in res:
	        print (res["Error"])
	        return 1
	
	    if len (res["results"]) < 0:
	        print ("no updated projects available")
	        return 1
	
	    for proj in res["results"]:
	        print (proj["projectId"], proj["name"])
	        print ("    last updated ", proj["lastUpdated"])
	
	
	if __name__ == "__main__":
	    main()
